clhelp deckhand
Composed by: Tydas on or about the 18th of Aeguary, 720 AF.

    Deckhand Specialisation

Specialist: Rorthgar, on the Ilyrean Isle

NOTE - Due to the out-of-the-way location of this specialist,
please ask on the Hashani Navy clan for help if you're having
trouble finding a ride up north. Several Maritime aides can
bring a city ship specially docked on the Isle down to the
northern part of the Achaean wilderness, giving you a fast and
easy ride to the specialist.

Rank I
    --Deckhand Aura--

    Allows you to activate this aura. While active, there is a
    small chance of an increased repair amount on a repair
    tick. This aura scales with your rank in Deckhand.


Rank II
    --Salvageops--
        SHIP SALVAGE SCAN
        SHIP SALVAGE <ship id>
        SHIP SALVAGE STOP

    While anchored above a shipwreck, this ability allows you
    to raise the ship from the sea floor, setting it alongside
    your own ship after a period of time. Salvaging a wreck
    requires a ship equipped with a salvage crane. Salvageops
    also comes with the ability to scan for nearby sunken ships
    in order to know where you should anchor to raise it.


Rank III
    --Cooking Good Stores--

    This rank enhances the general Seafaring Cooking ability,
    allowing any food stores you cook to be of good quality
    instead of merely common.

Rank IV
    --Plundering--
        SHIP PLUNDER <full name/short name>
        SHIP PLUNDER

    This gives you the ability to send your ship's
    swashbucklers over to another ship that is grappling or has
    been grappled by your ship. The swashbucklers will attempt
    to relieve the contents of the strongbox and the ship's
    trade cargo and bring them back to your ship. Attacking
    swashbucklers are more likely to suffer losses than those
    defending, and subsequent plunderings will decrease your
    chances at success and increase the danger to the invading
    crew.


Rank V
    --Fire Suppression--

    This passive effect gives a chance for fires on your ship
    to be put out by your crew automatically.
