chelp navalpolicy
Composed by: Nezaya on or about the 3rd of Sarapin, 927 AF.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

                 =NAVAL POLICY REGARDING FOREIGN SHIPS=

Hashan stands as a bastion of Progress, where free thought and action
stand as paramount virtues of the Hashani way. However, this is
underpinned by the necessity and practicality of consequence.


We are not a zealous city that forbids all interaction with enemies of
the citystate, when such interaction does not harm Hashan. Thus, Hashani
remain free to sail even with those who are enemies of Hashan. However,
because of the nature of ship warfare and the inability of our navy to
target these enemies without also sinking the Hashani who are aboard,
any Hashani who chooses to sail with such an enemy must accept the
consequences of doing so.


Ships that have only Hashani or at least one Hashani and otherwise only
non-city enemies aboard are considered "Hashani ships" and will not be
fired upon by the Hashani Navy or any Hashani on any ship. Ships that
have any formally declared city enemy aboard are considered "non-Hashani
ships," even if there are also Hashani aboard. Non-Hashani ships may be
fired upon by the Hashani Navy or other Hashani. Any Hashani who boards
a "non-Hashani ship" does so accepting the fact that they may be fired
upon by other Hashani due to the enemies on board with them.

On the subject of piracy, herein defined as the unprovoked attack on
foreign vessels for the purpose of plunder, murder, or ship destruction,
there is no prohibition on the practice in private ships. However, the
Hashani fleet is not meant for this purpose. A vessel of the Hashani
Navy, marked with the prefix HNS, may defend itself or attack enemies of
the Court under all circumstances. We recognize that at times disputes
may occur on the land or the sea that lead to violence on the oceans,
and citizens aboard HNS vessels are not prohibited from engaging in
battle in these circumstances either. However, random acts of
destruction against targets who merely happen to be in the vicinity for
no purpose other than vandalism are prohbited aboard HNS fleets. In 927,
the example of this practice would be the activities of the pirates
Landon and Artanis. Such behavior aboard private vessels are not
similarly prohibited.


In conjunction with this policy, it is illegal to bring non-Hashani on
board Hashani navy ships for any reason.


Further, it is illegal for a Hashani citizen to help city enemies
against the Hashani navy or ships with at least one Hashani and no city
enemies aboard, up to and including firing weapons at such ships. As
ever, the passing of intelligence from secure Hashani clans, including
the Navy, continues to hold the penalty for treason, that being the
swift removal of the citizen in question from the bounds of Hashan.
 

This policy also covers the lending of private ships, in that if a
citizen of Hashan chooses to lend their ship to a city enemy, they
accept the risk of doing so, knowing that their ship may be sunk under
these circumstances.

For questions related to this policy change or clarification on any
point, you may contact a member of the Regency.
