                                                                                                                     .
clhelp seamonsters
Composed by: Micharoj on or about the 17th of Ero, 914 AF.

Seamonsters can be killed by shooting discs from a thrower and darts
from a ballista at the monster. You can not target a seamonster like
another ship, you must FIRE <weapon> AT SEAMONSTER. Darts and discs both
count as the same thing, one shot.

Firing from an onager:

Spidershot   - Decrease the damage of a seamonster's next attack.

Starshot     - Slow a seamonster's attack speed for a short time.

Chainshot    - Slow a seamonster's movement speed for a short time.

Flares - Stop a monster moving for a short time, fired from any weapon

Chainshot and flares are useful if you are trying to escape a randomly
drawn seamonster while sailing somewhere.


------------------------------------------------------------

Seamonster hunters like to classify monsters on different levels. Each
level has a specific amount of shots from darts/discs to kill it.

Level 1 - 20 shots
Level 2 - 25 shots
Level 3 - 30 shots
Level 4 - 40 shots
Level 5 - 60 shots

For quick reference:

----

1 - Flying Sheilei, Foam-Wreathed Sea Serpent, Mudback Septacean,
Red-Faced Septacean

Beware of close-ranged attacks on hull and sails (rarely both), very
rarely sail entanglement, and little on-board adventurer damage.

Monsters here take 20 hits to die, and trophies turn in for 5000 gold.

--NESTS:
There are no currently known nests for this type of monster, however
they can be found through random encounters.

----

2 - Mass of Sargassum, Gargantuan Angler Fish, Gargantuan Megalodon,
Raging Shraymor

Beware of mid-ranged attacks on hulls and sails (often both), common
sail entanglement, and low on-board adventurer damage

Monsters here die within 25 hits, and trophies turn in for 7500 gold.

--NESTS:
Southwest of Tapoa, around the statue (occasionally spawns level 3
raiders)

----

3 - Furious Sea Dragon, Pirate Ship, Red-Sailed Kashari Raider, Trio of
Raging Sea Serpents

Beware of mid-ranged, strong attacks on hulls and sails (often both),
common sail entanglement, disruption of shipmelding, and low-medium
on-board adventurer damage.

Monsters here take 30 hits to die, and trophies turn in for 15000 gold.

--NESTS:
Southwest of Tapoa, around the statue (only raiders)
*Northeast of Clockwork Isle, around the statue in the chops
*South of Tenwat Harbour
*BEWARE that these nests have a low chance of spawning a surprise
leviathan

----

4 - Monstrous Ketea, Monstrous Picaroon, Sea Hag, Unmarked Warship

Beware of long-ranged, strong attacks on hulls and sails (often both),
common sail entanglement, disruption of shipmelding and dragon-level
on-board adventurer damage.

Monsters here take 40 hits to die, and trophies turn in for 50000 gold.

--NESTS:
*East of Zanzibaar, south of the statue
*West of Phereklos
*BEWARE that these nests have a low chance of spawning a surprise
leviathan

----

5 - Hulking Oceanic Cyclops, Legendary Leviathan, Towering Oceanic Hydra

Beware of long-ranged, very strong attacks on hulls and sails (often
both), common sail entanglement, disruption of shipmelding, preventionof
wavecall, and dragon-level on-board adventurer damage.

Monsters here take 60 hits to die, and trophies turn in for 100000 gold.

--NESTS:
South of Clockwork Isle, through the straits

------------------------------------------------------------

Observed seamonsters include:

FLYING SHEILEI (level 1 - 20 shots)
The serpentine body of this sheilei shimmers with translucent golden
scales, measuring more than nine feet in length. Its tail fin nearly
doubles the length, however, lashing back and forth like a cat's tail. A
pair of broad, flat pectoral fins extend outward like aqueous wings,
delicate in appearance yet powerful enough to propel the creature out of
the water. The most striking feature of the monster, however, is its
broad jaw and enormous mouth, filled with three rows of razor-sharp
teeth that curve and twist, locking together like a tangle of briars.

FOAM-WREATHED SEA SERPENT (level 1 - 20 shots)
Almost a league in true length, the serpentine motions of this great sea
snake hides half of its sinuous coils beneath the surface of the waves.
Iridescent fins frill along the undulating body, enabling propulsion
through the deep waters of the ocean and churning up pallid seafoam with
their passage above and beneath the surf. Akin to its landbound cousins,
but much multiplied in size, the monster's head is that of the classic
snake's in shape, but larger than a troll. Black eyes stare dully out
from the blue mottled scaling, and a great forked tongue tastes the
tidal spray, flickering from between a terrifying set of fangs.

MUDBACK SEPTACEAN (level 1 - 20 shots)
Covered with a mottled pattern of dark brown shades, the back of this
creature appears to be covered in mud. Seven fleshy tentacles protrude
from its underbelly, flashing yellow and green as they writhe around its
form. A pair of beady black eyes is set near the base of the glob-like
body, and a sharp, beak-like mouth periodically emits a shrill,
punctuated shriek.

RED-FACED SEPTACEAN (level 1 - 20 shots)
Little more than a flat black glob of slime, the distinguishing feature
of this tentacled creature is a patch of crimson surrounding two beady
eyes. Seven serpentine tentacles twitch beneath the shapeless body,
curling and twisting as it searches constantly for prey.

MASS OF SARGASSUM (level 2 - 25 shots)
Coloured an ugly brownish-green and composed of countless blades of
algae, this mass of sea grass moves about at the whim of the ocean's
current, carrying broken wood and debris along with it. Clutched in the
briny grasp of the sargassum are numerous bloated bodies, each one
devoid of eyes and in various states of decay. In some places, openings
exist where fish circle about to feed on the rotting remains.

GARGANTUAN ANGLER FISH (level 2 - 25 shots)
The ghostly lantern hanging before it from an arcing, bony spine casts
an eerie glow over the sea, illuminating the terrible visage of this
enormous fish in spectral green light. Jagged teeth, each easily the
length of a seastrider's bowsprit, protrude from its fell, yawning maw
at all angles; a sailor's body could disappear into the horrid,
rancorous pit without a trace. Spiny ridges cover the monster's body,
which is armoured with a mail of blanched umber scales, oily and dark.
Its beady, squinting black eyes, far too small for a beast of such size,
gleam with remorseless, predatory hunger. The enormous fish powers
forward relentlessly with an array of veiny, fan-shaped fins, its
lurching gait doing nothing to abate the angler's focused, pitiless
glare.

GARGANTUAN MEGALODON (level 2 - 25 shots)
Its streamlined, muscular body stretching out nearly eighty feet from
snout to tail, this massive beast is terrifying to behold. Black eyes,
small in comparison to the rest of its body, stare out from a large head
lined by five gill slits and culminating in a pointed snout and an
incredibly large mouth filled with row after row of huge, sharpened
teeth. The dorsal fin of the oversized shark is proportionate to its
size, and rises up from the monstrosity's back, while two pectoral fins
extend out from its sides. Large enough to cause serious damage on its
own, the megalodon's tail is, by itself, easily the size of a regular
shark.

RAGING SHRAYMOR (level 2 - 25 shots)
Countless rows of jagged white teeth line the gaping black maw of this
enormous shraymor, dripping with seawater and the acidic mucus of the
creature's own body. Easily a dozen meters long, its monstrous shape
looms as thick around as a redwood, culminating in a great tail fin that
sends it hurtling through the water at furious speeds. The front of its
body is entirely dedicated to its massive jaws, and three large black
eyes glare out in a triangular formation on either side of its head. A
constant roaring noise accompanies the monster's passage as churning
waters and consumed materials whirl about violently within its cavernous
stomach.

FURIOUS SEA DRAGON (level 3 - 30 shots)
This sinuous dragon is possessed of massive, serpentine proportions,
bluish-black diamond-shaped scales interlocking seamlessly over its
entire body and covering the creature in a powerful sheath of protective
armour. Four clawed fins, a pair in the front and towards the back
underside of the dragon, fold smoothly along each of its sides, their
surfaces fluted at the ends and incredibly delicate in comparison to the
scale-armoured parts of the creature. Long, spined fins are visible
adorning its ventral and dorsal sides, and a mighty caudal fin beats
vertically through the water, spanning approximately nine feet in
length. The head of the dragon is tapered and massive, sporting five
curved, slick black horns that project backwards from his crocodilian
visage. A countless number of tiny, razor-sharp teeth shine within the
dragon's gaping maw, while two wickedly sharp tusks curl out some length
from the edges.

PIRATE SHIP (level 3 - 30 shots)
This ship is large but sleek in design, able to cut nimbly through the
waves despite its size. Manned by a motley but efficient looking crew,
the ship is equipped with an onager, ballista, and Arcanian arm thrower:
sufficient weaponry to intimidate any ship caught unawares.

RED-SAILED KASHARI RAIDER (level 3 - 30 shots)
The stench of charnel and rot surrounds this raiding vessel in an
odiferous, but invisible cloud, the telltales of a slaver's ship.
Effluence stains the wood below the various portholes, the black streaks
a mark of its abhorrent cargo. Trademarks of the Kashari raiders, the
sails and flag are a bright, crimson red, blood their mark and blood
their trade.

TRIO OF RAGING SEA SERPENTS (level 3 - 30 shots)
Almost a league in true length, the serpentine motions of this great sea
snake hides half of its sinuous coils beneath the surface of the waves.
Iridescent fins frill along the undulating body, enabling propulsion
through the deep waters of the ocean and churning up pallid seafoam with
their passage above and beneath the surf. Akin to its landbound cousins,
but much multiplied in size, the monster's head is that of the classic
snake's in shape, but larger than a troll. Black eyes stare dully out
from the blue mottled scaling, and a great forked tongue tastes the
tidal spray, flickering from between a terrifying set of fangs.

MONSTROUS KETEA (level 4 - 40 shots)
Olive scales greater in size than the burliest of warhorses cover this
gargantuan creature. With slab-like teeth it gnashes at the surrounding
waters, churning it into eddies and whirlpools effortlessly. Its length
rises and dips into the water at various points, creating huge hills of
olive in the foam-flecked torrents. Raised out of the water, the
creatures' tail ends in a dripping barb, oozing caustic venom from its
sharp point. At the other, a head rivalling a windcutter in size, is
filled to the brim with countless fangs.

MONSTROUS PICAROON (level 4 - 40 shots)
A single, monstrous eye emerges from the centre of this sea creature's
gigantic forehead. The skin is creased and deeply wrinkled around the
oculus, indicating the great age of the monstrous picaroon. Scars are
visible zig-zagging across the monster's face, extending over a pair of
[Type MORE if you wish to continue reading. (77% shown)]
MORE
[File continued via MORE]
massive shoulders and fading into the rest of its thick-skinned body. A
pair of prodigious hands hang to either side of the beast's mammoth
trunk, each one clad in a golden bracer that extends from his great
forearms to caress each of the monstrous picaroon's battered knuckles.

SEA HAG (level 4 - 40 shots)
The enormous face of a beautiful and impassive woman rests at the heart
of a swirling mass of thick green-black tentacles rising high above the
waves. It's cold eyes watch serenely as the seas around it are churned
by the passage of its gargantuan body. The obscene bulk of the sea hag
is vast beyond measurement, receding down beneath the dark waters of the
ocean in a monstrous black shape that has no visible end. Many-fanged
mouths gape open all along its flanks, interspersed between massive
black tentacles as thick as trees and as long as three ships ranked
bow-to-stern. The delicate mouth of the hag's siren face slips open at
periodic intervals, and the otherworldly, multi-tonal howling that
sweeps out from between those ruby-red lips echoes with a wild frenzy
that would put the most violent storm to shame.

UNMARKED WARSHIP (level 4 - 40 shots)
Bristling with weapons, the high rails of this unmarked warship protect
and hide its crew and cargo from view. Four plain canvas sails and an
array of oars provide propulsion in gale or doldrums, but neither bear
identifiers. Every visible crewman aboard is clad in a cream shirt,
brown reeches, and bare feet, and the construction of the decks prevent
any given command from being overheard.

HULKING OCEANIC CYCLOPS (level 5 - 60 shots)
A towering, terrible goliath, this hulking cyclops easily tops thirty
feet, and his broad shouldered, barrel-chested girth defines his
overpowering bulk. A canvas loincloth is his only attire, the modest
garment fashioned from an entire sail torn from a hapless vessel.
Scar-laden skin sheathes his rippling muscles, the twisted, pocked hide
speaking to countless encounters with blade and projectile. His singular
eye glowers with a seething rancour and his fleshy lips are contorted in
a perpetual snarl. Rusty, pitted manacles encircle each wrist and ankle,
the short lengths of iron chain dangling from the useless shackles
telling tales of broken imprisonment, and the dry grating of the linkage
heralds each step and swing. Gobbets of greening flesh and tangles of
weed dangle from the barbs that adorn a great spiked club; the
tree-proportioned weapon clutched in the monster's massive right fist.

TOWERING OCEANIC HYDRA (level 5 - 60 shots)
This serpent-like creature is frighteningly colossal, its nine heads
towering high above all oceanic vessels. Each terrifying visage moves as
with its own sentience, constantly swaying, searching, and twining about
in all directions. The immense, muscular necks each contain ripplinggills and all meet at the shoulders of the beast, barely
visible below
the waves. A great shadow spreads into the waters suggesting an enormous
bulk concealed beneath the blue.

LEGENDARY LEVIATHAN (level 5 - 60 shots)
The sheer size of this oceanic leviathan defies all mortal perception.
The mind only processes fragments: a vast blackness that blots out the
sea, howling winds that follow the rippling of its oily outer membrane,
a submerged presence that sucks the air from your lungs. The mindless,
formless heaving and thrashing of the beast crafts tidal waves and whips
the air into a hurricane-like frenzy of destruction.