clhelp seaspells
Composed by: Minkai on or about the 19th of Mayan, 832 AF.

Seaspells

Seaspells are useful abilities that are gained 423 lessons into
the Seafaring skill, excepting the Hunger seaspell which you gain
automatically. They can be used to speed your journey from port
to port, escape or hide from pirates, or chase after fleeing
ships yourself.

In order to use seaspells, you must first obtain a figurehead.
These are sold in a variety of places in a variety of shapes. At
first, your figurehead will simply be a block of carved wood. In
order to empower it with the ability to use seaspells, you must
take it to the Altar of Sea Spirits and consecrate it.

The Altar of Sea Spirits is located roughly southwest of Zaphar's
port. After disembarking, take the figurehead to the altar, place
it on the gorund, and PRAY TO SEA SPIRITS. After a while, the
figurehead will be consecrated, and hold a modest amount of
power. Take it to the bow of your ship and SHIP MOUNT
<figurehead>. From that point on, you can meld with the ship by
standing at the bow and using INVOKE SEA SPIRIT. You can issue
orders while melded as if you were on the quarterdeck, if you are
the captain. RELSEASE SEA SPIRIT or move away from the bow in
order to break the connection.

Seaspells require a certain amount of power in the figurehead in
order to use. Power is restored to a figurehead by sailing - the
more you travel over water, the more power will build up. If a
figurehead is completely drained of power, it will be destroyed.
Resetting figureheads will merely pop off the bow and require
reconsecration. It's important to track your figurehead's power,
through TOUCH FIGUREHEAD while melded, so that you don't
accidentally destroy it.

Most seaspells must be invested into a figurehead in order to use
them. Investing can only be done while in a port or harbour,
though you can check what seaspells have been invested at any
time. There are eight investable seaspells, of which you are only
able to use four. There are two pairs of seaspells that are
mutually exclusive with each other. Investing one spell means
being unable to invest the other. These are Shipcloak and
Wavecall, and Shield and Rainstorm. Hunger is a special seaspell
that does not require investing to use.

== HUNGER ==
    INVOKE HUNGER <seamonster>
    Power Cost: 300

    This seaspell is specially designed to be used while hunting
    seamonsters. It casts a spectral net upon the targetted
    seamonster and, should the seamonster die before the net
    fades, the figurehead that cast the net will be replenished
    by a significant amount of power. This helps to replenish
    figurehead power during long seamonster hunts.
NOTE: This seaspell can only be used on level 2.5 or higher
    seamonsters. You must be melded with the figurehead to use this
    spell.


== Shipcloak ==
    INVOKE CLOAK
    DISSOLVE CLOAK
    Power Cost: 250

    Surrounds your ship in a cloak of darkness, preventing it
    from being seen by other ships. Any flares shot nearby will
    dissolve the cloak and reveal you. As well, moving while
    cloaked will still allow nearby sailors with shipwarning to
    see that a ship is moving nearby, but won't reveal the name
    of your ship.


 == Wavecall ==
    INVOKE WAVECALL <direction> <distance between 1-8>
    Power Cost: Varies

    This useful seaspell will catapult your ship instantly in
    whatever direction you specify, by however many metrons you
    specify, up to eight. It doesn't change the direction or the
    speed at which your ship is moving, even when wavecalling in
    the opposite direction. Use of this ability costs both power
    and personal endurance, and damages the hull, all of which
    will increase with the distance chosen. Also, if any nearby
    sailors have shipwarning up, they will be able to see your
    ship use wavecall, as well as the direction you went in. Be
    aware that you cannot wavecall while grappled, and in the
    presence of some high level seamonsters.
    NOTE: You must be melded with the figurehead to use this spell.


== Shield ==
    INVOKE SHIELD
    Power Cost: 200

    Raises a shield around your ship to protect it from damage
    attacks. Another ship using a wavescythe spell can shatter
    it.


== Rainstorm ==
    INVOKE RAINSTORM
    Power Cost: 50

    Summon a rainstorm to douse all decks and sails of fires at
    once.


  == Barrier ==
    INVOKE BARRIER
    DISSOLVE BARRIER

    Power Cost: 300

    Provides prismatic barriers around all aboard your ship. Once
    invoked, it will continually create barriers that are lost,
    but at the cost of more power from the figurehead. You must
    dissolve the barrier to stop them from being made.


  == Windboost ==
    INVOKE WINDBOOST
    Power Cost: 150

    A very handy seaspell, it temporarily boosts your ship's
    speed.


  == Whirlpool ==
    INVOKE WHIRLPOOL <direction>
    Power Cost: 200

    Using this seaspell summons whirlpools temporarily around your
    ship. Passage into and out of these whirlpools is slow and
    difficult, making it easier to run from someone chasing you
    that gets caught in one.


  == Wavescythe ==
    INVOKE WAVESCYTHE <target ship>
    Power Cost: 200

    Shatters the magical shield of another ship within range.
