clhelp shiptrades
Composed by: Alizais on or about the 13th of Mayan, 969 AF.

SHIP TRADES

1. What are Ship Trades?
2. Ship Trades Restrictions
3. Routing for Trades
4. Tips on Trading
5. How To Trade
6. Trading on City Ships


1. What is Ship Trading?

Ship trading is accepting a trade from either the harbour at Thraasi or
the harbour at Tasur'ke, and completing it as instructed. Trades change
each month at Serenade, when new ones will be offered. Once you have
accepted a trade, there is no time limit to completing it. The only
restriction is to make sure you have accepted the trade before Serenade
of the month it was offered. To see what can be gained from ship
trading, see CLHELP TRADEREWARDS.

2. Ship Trade Restrictions

Ship trades are restricted in two ways. Personal-restricted trades are
those that an individual captain can only complete once. If a trade is
personal, then you could gather up enough cargo to do the trade multiple
times, but it would have to be completed by different people.
Ship-restricted trades are those where that specific ship can only
complete it once. One person can do a ship-restricted trade multiple
times if they do it on a different ship each time. Some trades carry
both restrictions, so neither the person nor the ship can repeat it
within the month.

3. Routing for Trades

Okay, you've found a trade that offers something you want, so now what?
You know what you need to end up with, but how do you work out what you
need to start with, and what do you need in between them? Good resources
are CLHELP TRADEDEALCHART, CLHELP TRADEMATH, CLHELP TRADECARGO, and
CLHELP TRADEROUTEGUIDE.

4. Tips on Trading

You do not have to accept a trade before working on it. You can also
accept a trade in the middle of the route when it is most convenient to
stop at the harbour offering the trade. Or, if the trade is accepted and
completed at the same harbour, you can arrive with the correct cargo
already on-hand to accept and immediately complete the deal.

If you have a large enough ship, you can buy double or triple the cargo
and take a friend or two along for trades that are personal, but not
ship, so you can enjoy the trip together. You will need to sail back and
forth from the starting to ending harbour for each person to accept and
complete.

Two pieces of ship equipment, the cargo buoy and cargo float, can be
helpful on a ship you are planning to use for frequent trading. CLHELP
SHIPEQUIPMENT has details on these.

5. How To Trade

HARBOUR INFO at Tasur'ke or Thraasi will show the available trade there.
SHIP TRADE while on a ship will list out all required commands.

6. Trading on City Ships

City ships are available for trading on a first-come, first-served
basis. Please make sure to check a ship's log to ensure it has not
already done a ship-restricted trade. If you accept a trade on a city
ship, complete it as quickly as possible since the ship will not be
available for anyone else to use for trades until yours is complete.

Remember to replenish the strongbox with all cargo costs and docking
fees incurred throughout your trip.

