clhelp specialisations
Composed by: Minkai on or about the 13th of Glacian, 869 AF.

  --Specialisation Points (SPPs)--
Specialisation points are gained as you grow more proficient in the
skill of seafaring until you transcend the skill. You get a couple
points immediately after becoming an unquestioned seafarer, but you must
use lessons to gain more by learning more seafaring. At trans seafaring,
you will have 32 SPPs.


  --Spending Specialisation Points--

One question often asked is "how should I spend my specialisation points
(SPPs)?"

To answer that question, you must first understand what purpose each
specialisation (spec) serves on a ship and how specialisations work.

There are five specs that one may train and each one can go up to rank
five. Each rank consumes the same number of SPPs as the rank. So for
example, rank one deckhand consumes one SPP, rank two deckhand consumes
two SPPs, rank three deckhand consumes three SPPs, and so on with a
total of fifteen SPPs to get to rank five.

The specs are as follows: deckhand, weapons, helm, watch, command. Each
one serves a specific set of duties that may be needed aboard a ship.

Deckhands perform basic duties pertaining to maintenance. People who
choose this spec gain a bonus to maintaining the hull and sails of a
ship and can salvage a sunken ship (as long as the rescue ship has a
salvage crane). They can also plunder other ships in a combat situation.
Their aura provides a bonus to the repair speed of a ship. CLHELP
DECKHAND for more.


Those who choose the weapons specialisation deal directly with the
weapons aboard a ship. They are able to dip ammo in dragon tears which
will set other ships on fire and repair weapons. The navy recommends
that all sailors have this specialisation up to RANK 2. Their aura
provides a bonus to the speed of weapon aiming. CLHELP WEAPONS for more.


The Helm specialisation allows for easier navigation over the open
oceans and quicker training of crew. They are masters of tricky
maneuvers that can help the ship turn more quickly or even slip around a
ship on a collision course. Their aura provides a small bonus to row
speed and a bonus to things that increase crew experience, and increase
crew morale, such as cooking. CLHELP HELM for more.


Watchmen are the eyes of the ship. Primarily utilizing the crow's nest,
they watch for other ships and keep the captain informed of any new
developments upon the sea. They can use spyglasses to gain detailed
information about the surroundings and anticipate the movement of other
ships. Their aura provides a speed bonus to climbing the rigging and the
mast. CLHELP WATCH for more.

The command specialisation is all about command. Sailors specialised in
this will be able to use seaspells without invoking the sea spirits, be
able to observe the status of their fleet at once and keelhaul unruly
adventurer crew members. Their aura reduces the cost of seaspells.
CLHELP COMMAND for more.


Once you understand each specialisation, you must ask yourself: "what
purpose do I wish to serve aboard a ship?" Do you want to be a deckhand
and help maintain the ship? Or would you rather take a direct hand in
sinking other ships with the weapon specialisation?

Furthermore, do you plan to sail alone, or in a group? Do you plan to
dedicate yourself to sinking other ships or hunting the monsters of the
seas?

Keep in mind that you have enough SPPs at transcendent seafaring to get
to rank five in any two specialisations, so your duties are not limited
to a single spec. Also keep in mind that as long as you have access to
the specialisation teachers, you can change your specialisations at
will.
