clhelp voyagelist
Composed by: Icraa on or about the 4th of Ero, 924 AF.

Voyages should be challenging and are a test of a sailors skill, but
knowing how to obtain them and what to expect from them should not be
part of the challenge. If you wish to add or change the information
please follow the template and provide as much information as you are
willing to (without ruining the surprise for those who have never done a
voyage).

See CLHELP VOYAGES and HELP VOYAGES for what voyages and how to properly
obtain them for your ship.

Tourist

Obtained At: Thraasi with Otryn present

Length: Long. Otryn wants to see 6 different places.

Summary: Help a friendly traveler see the world, and not just from the
deck of your ship.

Helpful hints: Do not leave the tourist behind! It's hard to help
someone sightsee when they are not following you.


A Treasure Voyage

Obtained: Look for a corked glass bottle in a harbour and open in on
your ship.

Length: Short. One destination.

Summary: Read the treasure map, follow to clues, and find the treasure!

Hints: This one is very short and straightforward. The toughest part is
finding a corked bottle!


A Captains Voyage

Obtained: Harbormaster at man-made harbours.

Length: Medium. Will take several days to complete.

Summary: Guide an unusual companion around the world and dig for clues.
I'm sure they will need whatever you can dig up as you sail to different
islands.

Helpful Hints: Share what you find with your pangolin friend and don't
lose them!


An Indebted Voyage

Obtained: Harbormaster at man-made harbours.

Length: Variable. Related to the Kraken hunt.

Summary: This is necessary to gain the benefits of slaying the Kraken.

Hints: Needs to be picked up before the Kraken is summoned. See CLHELP
KRAKEN for more info on the Kraken hunt.


A Surgeons Voyage

Obtained: Averroes in New Hope.

Length: Long. You must sail to one island in each of the four oceans.

Summary: Speak to Averroes and then embark on a journey to find and give
offerings to the four sea spirits. Blow the conch shell and return to
Averroes after for your reward.

Hints: None of the items to offer are on the island they are to be
offered at. Obtain the offerings and then travel to the four location to
offer them.


A Cursed Voyage

Obtained: Harbormaster at man-made harbours.

Length: Long. Several islands to visit as well as additional quests to
complete on them.

Summary: Help break the curse and enlist Yudhishthira's help to do so.

Hint: You will have to fetch an item to get Yudhishthira to agree to the
quest and then fetch what he requires to break the curse.


Smuggler

Obtained: Dock workers on islands.

Length: Short.

Summary: Help a dock worker smuggle goods to an individual on another
island.

Hint: Very short and straightforward, but maybe not worth the meager
reward.


Priestess

Obtained: Riparium during a New Moon

Length: Short.

Summary: Listen to the priestess' story and put her to rest.

Hint: Remember to dig up the skull and drop it where needed.


Grievous

Obtained: from any harbour where you can pick up voyages.

Length: The longest voyage of them all

Summary: uncover a child trafficking plot.

Helpful hints: This is a very dangerous voyage, bring a crew of dragons.


Sight
This one requires you and your crew to have completed the majority of
the other voyages to be eligble.

Obtained: can be found in either claw cove, new hope, valho coast or sea
lion cove, it is only available from one of those locations at any given
time, and the location moves.

Length: Short.

Summary: Haul Maya's Sundred Pearl up from the depths, and fight its
crew.

Helpful hints: the Pearl is near where the voyage was picked up. Be
prepared for a long and difficult fight, bring a crew of dragons.
Fog-wreathed

Obtained: can only be picked up immediately after you have completed
Voyage of Sight, from the same dockworker.

Length: Short

Summary: Travel into the mist...

Helpful hints: Good luck!
