clhelp whatnow
Composed by: Elyra on or about the 20th of Daedalan, 833 AF.

Hail, Sailor!

You've joined the Navy and you want to help out, but you're not sure
how? Great, you're in the right place.

Firstly, you don't need skill in seafaring to be useful, though it will
help. Getting your marque (HELP MARQUE) even if you can't put lessons in
seafaring yet will also help you gain your sea legs.

Everyone in the Navy should, irrelevant of skill in seafaring, have this
equipment on hand at all times, and know how to use it:
An empty bucket (HELP BUCKETS, bought from Rurin's shops in the Bazaar)
A piece of rope (Commodity - bought from the City commodity shop in the
Bazaar, or the CM)
-With the rope and bucket in your inventory (stash this in your rift
when you leave realm or it will drop out) you can FILL BUCKET WITH WATER
from a ship's deck.
-Then you can DOUSE ROOM to put out a fire once you've located it.

*A magi can also FLOOD the room to put out fires.

A ship's axe (Crafted by a Shipfitter for 15 wood and 15 iron, TRADEWHO
SHIPFITTING)
-When an enemy ship fires a hook shot at your ship, this will tether
your ships together and stop you from escaping, find the hook and CHOP
HOOK or CHOP TETHER to get rid of it. This is a CHANNELED action, that
means it will take time to complete and you can interrupt it if you try
to do anything before it's finished.

Once you have these things and know how to use them reliably and
quickly, congrats, you can ask to be moved to the role of 'Deckhand' in
the Navy. You are now a useful part of the crew!

If you do have some Seafaring Promotion Points (SPP), then you're even
more useful! The first, most important skill you can pick up is weapons
II. This only takes 3 SPP. It will allow you to load a weapon without
using balance and dip your ammunition to set your target on fire. Make
sure your reflexes allow you to quickly do the following:

-Load each of the three ship weapons with their various types of
ammunition, both dipped and undipped. (HELP SHIP WEAPONS) and know what
each does.
-Fire these weapons at ships (your captain will lock your target, you
just need to FIRE WEAPON once your ammo is ready. For this you use
dipped ammunition if a vat is available and it makes sense for that
ammunition.
-Fire these weapons at seamonsters (You need to FIRE BALLISTA AT
SEAMONSTER, for example), you will always use undipped ammo for
seamonsters, dipping it is just wasting your vats.
-Know how to CLEAR weapons (CLEAR BALLISTA, CLEAR THROWER, CLEAR ONAGER)
when they are hit with Spidershot.
-Know how to access the sails and rigging and CLEAR them too, and DOUSE
SAILS if they're on fire.
-Know how to AURA ACTIVATE and AURA SWITCH and what Auras you have
available at what levels.

NOTE: CLEARING and FIRING are both channeled actions and can be
interrupted by your curing or actions.

For further information about how to progress in the Navy, read CLHELP
PROGRESSION.


